I think the use of HLP had
taken off first in academia
when people figured
out it was a useful thing
to include to help
get papers published,
but there's also
been a bit misuse
in terms of building
useful applications.
I think the use of HLP in
machine learning has
taken off partly
because it helped people get
papers published to
show they can be HLP.
There's also been a bit
misused in settings where
the goal was to build a
valuable application,
not just to publish a paper.
When the ground truth
is externally defined,
then there are
fewer problems with
HLP when the drought really
is some real drought-proof.
For example, I've done a lot
of work on medical imaging,
working on your AI for
diagnosing from X-rays
or things like these.
Given an X-ray image,
if you want to
predict a diagnosis,
if the diagnosis is defined
according to, say, a biopsy,
so your biological
or medical tests,
then HLP helps you measure
how well does a doctor versus
a learning algorithm
predict the outcome
of a biopsy or a
biological medical tests.
I find that to be really useful.
But when the ground truth
is defined by a human,
maybe even a doctor
labeled an X-ray image,
then HLP is just measuring
how well can one doctor predict
another doctor's label
versus how well can
one learning algorithm predict
another doctor's label.
That too is useful,
but it's different than if you're
measuring how well you versus
a doctor are predicting
some ground truth outcome
from a medical biopsy.
To summarize, when
the ground truth label
is externally defined,
such as the medical biopsy,
then HLP gives an estimate
for base error and
irreducible error in
terms of predicting
the outcome of that
medical test, the biopsy.
But there are also a
lot of problems with
the ground truth is just
another human label.
The visual inspection
example we had from
the previous video showed this,
where the inspector had
66.7 percent accuracy.
Rather than just aspiring to
beat the human inspector,
it may be more useful to
see why the ground truth,
which is just some other
inspector compared
to this inspector don't agree.
For example, if we look at
the length of the different
scratches that they labeled,
say, on these six examples,
these were the length
of the scratches.
If we speak of the inspectors
and have them agree that
0.3 mm is the threshold
above which a stretch
becomes a defect,
then what we realize is
that for the first example,
both label that one
totally appropriately.
For the second example,
the ground truth here is
one but is less than 0.3,
so we really should
change this to zero,
then 0.5 guess 1 1, 0.2 000.1.
This example has
a stretch of 0.1,
but really this should
have been a zero.
If we go through this
exercise of getting
the ground truth label and
this inspector to agree,
then we actually just raise
human-level performance
from 66.7 percent to 100 percent,
at least as measured
on these six examples.
But notice what we've done,
by raising HLP to 100
percent we've made
it pretty much impossible for
learning algorithm to beat HLP,
so that seems terrible.
You can't tell the
business owner anymore,
you beat HLP, and thus
they must use your system.
But the benefit of this is
you now have much cleaner,
more consistent data, and that
ultimately will allow
your learning algorithm
to do better.
When you go is to come up with
a learning algorithm
that actually generates
accurate predictions rather than
just proof for some reason
that you can beat HLP.
I find this approach
of working to
raise HLP to be more useful.
To summarize,
when the ground truth label
y comes from a human,
HLP being
quite a bit less than 100
percent may just indicate
that the labeling instructions or
labeling convention is ambiguous.
On the last slide,
you saw an example of
this in visual inspection.
You also see this in
speech recognition where
the camera versus ellipses...,
that type of ambiguous
labeling convention will
also cause HLP to be less
than 100 hundred percent.
Improving label consistency
will raise human-level
performance.
This makes it harder,
unfortunately for your
learning algorithm to beat
HLP by the more consistent labels
who raise your machine
learning album performance,
which is ultimately likely to
benefit the actual application.
Far we've been discussing
HLP on unstructured data,
but some of these issues apply
to structure data as well.
You already know that
structured data problems are
less likely to
involve human labors
and thus HLP is less
frequently use.
But there are exceptions.
You saw previously the
user ID emerging example,
where you might
have a human label,
where the two records
belong to the same person.
I've worked on projects
where we will look at
network traffic into a computer
to try to figure out if
the computer was hacked,
and we as human IT experts
to provide labels for us.
Sometimes it's hard to
know if a transaction is
fraudulent and you just
ask a human to label that.
Or is this a spam account or
a bot-generated accounts?
Or from GPS,
what is the mode
of transportation
is this person on foot,
or on a bike, or in
the car, or the bus.
It turns out buses
stop at bus stops,
and so you can actually
tell if someone is
in a bus or in a car
based on the GPS trace.
For problems like these,
it would be quite
reasonable to ask
a human to label the data,
at least on the first pass for
a learning algorithm to make
such predictions as these.
When the ground truth
label you're trying
to predict comes from one human,
the same questions of
what does HLP mean?
It is a useful baseline to
figure out what is possible.
But sometimes when measuring HLP,
you realize that low HLP stems
from inconsistent labels,
and working to improve
HLP by coming up with
a more consistent labeling
standard will both raise
HLP and give you
cleaner data with which to
improve your learning
experience performance.
Here's what I hope you
take away from this video.
First, HLP is
important for problems
where human-level performance can
provide a useful reference.
I do measure it and use it as
a reference for what might
be possible and to drive air
analysis and prioritization.
Having said that, when
you're measuring HLP,
if you find the HLP is much
less than 100 percent,
also ask yourself if some
of the gap between HLP and
complete consistency is due
to inconsistent
labeling instructions.
Because if that turns
out to be the case,
then improving labeling
consistency will raise
HLP and also give
cleaner data for your
learning algorithm,
which will ultimately result in
better machine-learning
algorithm performance.
Guess what I hope you take
away from this video.
HLP is useful and important
for many applications.
For problems where
I think how well
humans perform is a
useful reference,
I do measure HLP and I use
that to get a sense of
what might be possible,
and also use HLP to
drive error analysis
and preservation.
Having said that, if,
in the process of measuring HLP,
you find that HLP is much less
than perfect performance,
much lower than 100 percent.
This is also worth
asking yourself,
if that gap between HLP and
100 percent accuracy may be due
to inconsistent
labeling instructions.
Because if that's the case,
then improving labeling
consistency will both raise HLP,
but more importantly help you get
cleaner and more
consistent labels which
would improve your learning
algorithm's performance.